The Non-Interactive Shell
Most Netcat-like tools provide a
non-interactive shell
This means programs that require
user input -
like file transfer programs, su and
sudo –
tend to work poorly in these shells,
if they work at all.
Non-interactive shells also lack useful
features
like tab completion and job control.
An example will help illustrate
this problem.
Let’s first connect to our Debian
lab client via SSH.
You’re already familiar with the ls
command, which is non-interactive,
because it can complete without
user interaction.
By contrast, consider a typical FTP login
session
from our Debian lab client to our
Kali system:
In this session, we enter a username and
password, and the process exits
only after we enter the bye command.
This is an interactive program; it
requires user intervention to complete.
Although the problem may be
obvious at this point,
let’s attempt an FTP session through a
non-interactive shell,
in this case, Netcat.
To begin, let's assume we've compromised
a debian client
and have obtained access to a netcat
bind shell
we’ll launch a Netcat bind shell
listening on port 4444
to simulate this.
From our Kali system, we’ll connect to
the listening shell.
Now let’s attempt the FTP login again:
Behind the scenes, we’re interacting
with the FTP server,
but we’re not receiving any
feedback in our shell.
This is because the standard output
from the FTP session
is not redirected correctly in a basic
bind or reverse shell.
This results in the loss of control of
our shell
and we’re forced to exit it completely
with control-c
This could present a huge problem
for us during an assessment.
Upgrading a Non-Interactive Shell
Now that we understand some of the
limitations of non-interactive shells,
let’s examine how we can “upgrade”
our shell to be far more useful.
The Python interpreter, frequently
installed on Linux systems,
comes with a standard module named pty
which allows for creation of
pseudo-terminals.
We can use this module to spawn
a separate process
and upgrade to a fully interactive shell.
First, we’ll reconnect to our listening
Netcat shell…
…and invoke our pty shell:
Immediately after running our Python
command,
we’re greeted with a familiar Bash prompt.
Let’s try connecting to our local FTP
server again,
this time through the pty shell and
see how it behaves:
This time, our interactive connection
to the FTP server was successful…
…and when we quit, we are returned to
our upgraded Bash prompt.
This technique effectively provides an
interactive shell
through a traditionally non-interactive
channel.